The atmosphere is breathable.
Bo-Katan was right.
Mandalore is not cursed.
Bo-Katan Kryze is going off
to bring other Mandalorians in exile to us
so that we may join together once again.
It is time to retake Mandalore.
Have you come back
to join the mercenaries?
I've come to reclaim my fleet.
Enough Mandalorian blood
has been spilled by our own hands.
The ruler of Mandalore
must possess the Darksaber.
While exploring Mandalore, I was captured.
And this blade was taken from me.
Bo-Katan rescued me and slayed my captor.
I return this blade to its rightful owner.
I found a derelict New Republic shuttle.
This was an extraction.
Flight times
match the ship transporting Moff Gideon.
I knew it. He never made it to trial.
There appears to be something embedded
in the cabin wall.
It's a fragment of beskar alloy.
Please. You set me up.
Code T-K-2-7-5-5.
Report. And make it quick,
as I am short on time.
Sir, I'm afraid the pirates
have run into trouble on Nevarro.
In your last report,
didn't you suggest that the New Republic
would not be sending support?
It wasn't the New Republic.
Magistrate Karga
was aided by Mandalorians.
Which Mandalorians?
According to the reports
received by the New Republic,
Bo-Katan Kryze lead a squadron
of Mandalorians
alongside Din Djarin and his covert.
This cannot be.
Those two factions are sworn enemies.
Which is why I contacted you with haste.
Continue with your mission.
I shall deal with our Mandalorian friends.
The New Republic is vulnerable,
but we must be cautious
and show no sign of our true strength.
Easy for you to say, Captain.
There's a fortune to be had
plundering the hyperspace lanes.
Commander, your hit-and-run operations
are gaining too much notice.
If we are perceived as anything other than
a group of unorganized remnant warlords,
the New Republic will increase
their efforts to hunt us down.
There are citizens loyal to the Empire
on every planet in this galaxy.
They're already getting sick
of this New Republic
and its rules and regulations.
And if we give them a show of strength,
they will rally behind us.
Yes.
But that strength must not be wasted.
Grand Admiral Thrawn's return
will herald in the reemergence
of our military,
and provide Commandant Hux enough time
to deliver on Project Necromancer.
Captain Pellaeon,
you always speak with much authority,
and yet, I see,  once again,
that Grand Admiral Thrawn
is missing from your delegation.
Any word on when he will be able
to participate in the Shadow Council?
With respect, our one hope for success
relies upon the secrecy of his return.
Captain, secrets are my stock-in-trade.
I hear whispers
from one end of the galaxy to another,
and never a word of Thrawn.
You have spoken of his imminent return.
Perhaps, it's time
we look to new leadership.
Hear, hear.
Project Necromancer is in place for that.
Yes, Commandant.
What has become of Doctor Pershing
and the research you promised us?
Doctor Pershing
was captured by the New Republic.
His research is lost.
For now, at least.
I also hear whispers, Gideon.
You held Pershing and were attempting
your own experiments on Nevarro.
The creation of clones is your obsession,
not mine.
I account for what goes on in my sector,
no more, no less.
The same can be said
of every member of this Council.
- Yes.
- Of course.
- That's right.
- Yes.
And yet, we individually
scrape and claw resources
awaiting the grand plan to take shape,
while you and Pellaeon
amass countless resources
and equipment which should be shared.
Oh, we already received your request.
"Three Praetorian Guards."
Sounds like someone is concerned
about an assassination attempt.
And he thinks I'm being the flashy one.
And reinforcements
for your TIE interceptor squadron.
And... bombers.
Yes, I see.
And what is your security concern?
Mandalorians.
What?
- They continue to be an issue?
- They do.
I am increasingly confident
that they are preparing to retake
their home world of Mandalore.
A resurgent Mandalore
would hamper our efforts.
Which is why
we need to stamp them out now.
Yes.
You'll have your reinforcements.
And your guard.
We shall be rid of the Mandalorians
once and for all.
Long Live the Empire!
High Magistrate! High Magistrate!
An Imperial shuttle
is advancing over the city.
First, that's a light cruiser.
And second, it's not Imperial.
With apologies, sir.
According to my data, it is.
No, no. It was an Imperial ship.
Look at the markings.
See, those, my friend,
are Mandalorian privateers.
I'll bet you, half that fleet
was captured from the Empire.
So, they're on our side then?
I should hope so.
They're our welcomed guests. Come.
I hope these two groups get along.
They've never met,
and what little they know of each other,
they hate.
They will if they wanna survive.
Take the children inside.
Welcome, fellow Mandalorians.
We invite you to make camp.
Let us prepare a feast for our guests.
Mando!
Welcome back, my friend. Welcome back.
That's quite a fleet you've assembled.
Little welcome gift
to celebrate our new neighbors.
That's all the way from Coruscant,
so you might wanna wait for a smaller
gathering before you open it.
- Thank you.
- That's not the only gift I have for you.
What did you do to IG-11?
No, that's IG-12 now. Do you like him?
Do I like him?
Don't worry. He's safe.
You're sure?
Well, the Anzellans stripped IG
down to his base motor functions.
They removed his memory circuit.
The pilot provides cognition.
IG-12: Yes.
Think of it this way.
It's more like a vehicle. Hmm?
It's safer that way.
Bad baby. No squeezie!
Well, he's too little
to operate this thing.
No, no, no, no. Let's see if he fits.
So what do you think?
They do nice work, I'll give them that.
But, Grogu is too young
to operate heavy machinery.
- Maybe when he's older.
- IG-12: No.
- What do you mean, "No?"
I think he's sayin'
he's old enough to operate it.
IG-12: Yes.
- Mmm-mmm. Get him out of there.
- IG-12: No.
No, at least let him try it out
in my office.
- IG-12: Yes.
- No, this is not a good idea. Come on.
Hey.
Will you look at that?
IG-12: Yes.
"Yes" what?
- Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
- Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
What are you doing?
Stop, Grogu. No.
You have to pay for those.
- No. Hey. Grogu.
- IG-12: Yes. No.
- Give it.
- IG-12: No.
- Grogu, give it ba...
Here.
This isn't working for me.
BO-KATAN: Mandalorians.
It is time to retake our home world.
Even though the planet is not cursed,
there are still dangers.
Dormant species
have been awakened from the bombings.
The remaining magnetic interference
has made it impossible to scan the surface
from above atmosphere.
Which is why I'm proposing
that we leave Nevarro
and move the fleet
into orbit above Mandalore.
We send down a small recon party.
We'll scout the surface,
find out what remains of the Great Forge,
and establish a safe perimeter.
Only then, will we bring down the others.
I need volunteers from both tribes.
I will go.
Grogu as well.
- I will go.
I will go as well.
Scouting party descending to surface.
We'll lose comms shortly.
It's worse than I thought.
I was here when it happened.
They're ready.
Secure infil zone.
Gauntlet, landing zone secure.
Somewhere below
is where our ancient capital once stood.
We'll survey the surface until we find
the Forge and create a safety zone.
Only then
will we begin to bring down the settlers.
We start scouting in that direction.
Form up.
There, on the horizon.
- BO-KATAN: Nite Owls.
Flanking left.
Do you have food?
BO-KATAN: We do.
You wear the crest of the Nite Owls?
BO-KATAN: I should hope so.
They're Mandalorians.
Is that the voice of Lady Bo-Katan Kryze?
It is.
We knew you would not forsake us,
Lady Bo-Katan.
We have failed you,
but our blasters remain in your service.
They intercepted
any ships they saw leaving.
They took no prisoners.
They bombed every surface twice over.
They punished us
as a warning to the whole galaxy
because we refused to surrender.
That's not true.
I did surrender.
After our forces were annihilated
in the Night of a Thousand Tears
and defeat was imminent,
I met with Moff Gideon.
The ISB had reached out to me
to negotiate a cease-fire.
In exchange for submitting
to the Empire and disarming,
all remaining cities and Mandalorian lives
were to be spared.
That is how Moff Gideon
came to possess the Darksaber.
I didn't trust him,
but it was the only chance I had
to save our people.
And then he betrayed me
and we were helpless
to resist the Purge of Mandalore.
How did these others survive?
We were hidden
on the moon of Concordia.
Are you Death Watch?
Death Watch exists no longer.
It shattered into many warring factions.
Our people have suffered time and again.
From division and squabbling factions.
Mandalore has always been too powerful
for any enemy to defeat.
It is always
our own division that destroys us.
I had no idea.
We were taught that everyone
but us had forsaken the Way.
That you were selfish and uncaring.
Now I understand.
You were right.
I was selfish.
And this is what it wrought.
We'll rebuild it.
Isn't that our history?
For thousands of years,
we have been on the verge of extinction,
and for thousands of years,
we have survived.
I don't know
if I can keep everyone together.
There's too much animosity.
And this blade
is all I have to unify our people.
I only know of this weapon
what you taught me.
To be honest,
it means nothing to me or my people.
Nor does station or bloodline.
What means more to me is honor.
And loyalty. And character.
These are the reasons
I serve you, Lady Kryze.
Your song is not yet written.
I will serve you until it is.
We'll rest tonight
and continue at first light.
These here are too weak to continue.
We must return to the Gauntlet
and I will ferry them back to the fleet
in the morning.
Agreed.
Captain?
Those of you who are well enough
can join us in the search
for the Great Forge.
We can do better than that.
We can bring you there.
Onward, Mandalorians! To the Forge!
You can't move an Enforcer like that.
It's a flank jump.
And you're about to submit.
But only the Wing Guard can flank jump.
The Enforcer moves like a Wing Guard
when it's flanking.
These primitives
make up their own rules for everything.
Seriously?
Submit or fight.
Can you believe this?
Should I step in?
Neither side can step in.
It was bound to happen sooner or later.
- IG-12: No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
You taught your apprentice well.
He didn't learn that from me.
Come in, Fleet Command.
We read you.
Prepare to receive rescued survivors
in need of medical attention.
Copy, Gauntlet.
There, on the starboard bow!
Abandon ship!
Let's go!
This way! This way!
Hurry up! Faster!
You good?
We're not far.
We need to go further down.
Go, go, go.
Go! Go, go!
Where are we?
This is what's left of the Great Forge.
This was once
the heart of our civilization.
But the fires have been extinguished
since the bombings.
You lived here?
We all did.
We never left.
Survived by migrating
along the surface until the war ended.
Some tried to explore below,
but none survived.
Jet packs?
More survivors?
Those aren't Mandalorians.
They're Imperials!
Take cover.
They're wearing beskar armor!
We're pinned down. We need backup.
I can make a run for the fleet
and get us reinforcements.
No, it's too far.
I can make it. It's our only shot
at taking the planet back.
There's a split in the ceiling there.
I'll lay down cover.
They're retreating!
BO-KATAN: Advance.
For Mandalore!
Okay, kid. You've gotta keep up.
BO-KATAN: What is this place?
It's an ambush.
Disarm him.
Thank you for gathering
the Mandalorians into one place.
You were a talented people,
but your time has passed.
However, as you can see,
Mandalore will live on in me.
Thanks to your planet's rich resources,
I have created
the next generation Dark Trooper suit
forged from beskar alloy.
And the most impressive improvement
is that it has me in it.
You see,
every society has something to offer.
The cloners. The Jedi.
And even the Mandalorians.
By aggregating the best of each,
I will create an army
that will bring order to the galaxy.
Why don't we take your fleet off the board
while we still have
the element of surprise.
Activate the interceptors and bombers.
BO-KATAN: No!
In but a few moments,
the Purge of Mandalore will be complete.
Take him to the debriefing room.
BO-KATAN: I should have killed you
when I had the chance.
Bo-Katan.
We have to stop meeting like this.
BO-KATAN: I'll make sure of it.
Let's skip the pleasantries, shall we?
I believe this is the part
where you return
the Darksaber to its rightful owner.
Now, surrender the Darksaber,
and tell these people
that this planet is mine.
This is the Way.
Open the blast doors.
Kill them.
- BO-KATAN: Move out!
Move out!
Fall back! I'll cover the rear!
Go, go, go! Go! Go, go, go, go!
BO-KATAN: We're clear. Fall back.
Come on. We're not leaving you behind.
Go. There are too many.
BO-KATAN: No!
This is the Way.